So, a few months ago, I made a video
about Superpowers, a Claude Code plugin
that, in my opinion, does a better job
of planning features than the built-in
plan mode. But, now the team have
released Ultra Plan, which works by
moving the plan from the CLI to Claude
Code on the web, which will clone your
repo in a cloud environment and write a
detailed plan for you to implement in
the cloud or back on your machine, which
is all very cool. So, hit subscribe and
let's see if I think this new way of
planning is better than using
Superpowers and better than playing
Pokémon.
Annoyingly, at the time of recording
this video, the Claude team have just
released Claude Routines, and they've
also redesigned the Claude Code desktop
app. I thought, "Why do you move so
fast?" Anyway, this video is about the
Ultra Plan feature, so let's get
straight into it. So, the focus of this
demo is to write a plan for this
product, which is a CLI tool I'm working
on that does film emulation. I'll add a
link to it in the description if you're
interested, but this plan is to focus on
building a release pipeline. I'll start
with using the new Ultra Plan feature
and then compare the plan. So, in order
to use Ultra Plan, you need to have at
least this version of Claude Code, and
you can use it with the  Ultra
Plan command, or you can just write
Ultra Plan, which will give it this nice
rainbow effect, similar to Ultra Think.
Then, I'm going to paste in a prompt to
build the release pipeline. I've also
told it not to use the Superpowers
skill, so that it can focus on just
using the Claude Ultra Plan feature.
But, before I hit enter, let's take a
look at my usage percentage, which you
can see is set to zero before Claude has
done any planning. So, now if I hit
enter, it asks me if I want to run the
interactive plan on the web, which I'm
going to say yes to, and it looks like
the Ultra Plan creation failed at about
4% usage. So, I'm going to run the exact
same prompt in debug mode, which is now
giving me this link to view it in the
browser. But, I'm actually going to view
it in the newly redesigned Claude Code
for Mac, and I'm going to close the
sidebar, and we can see that it first
set up a cloud container and then clones
the repo. I forgot to mention, to use
Ultra Plan, your project's repo needs to
be on GitHub, since it creates a cloud
session and needs to clone the repo to
understand the code. So, once that's
done, it starts Claude Code in the
cloud, runs the bash tool to read the
context of the repo, and then runs a few
other commands. And here, it asks a few
questions about the plan, and after
about 2 or 3 minutes, I get a
notification in the terminal telling me
Ultra Plan has finished and it's ready
for review. So, here is the plan. I'm
actually going to zoom out a bit to make
it easier to read and extend this
sidebar before zooming in a tiny bit
more. So, first of all, it's told me the
repo is empty with no commits and no
which is not true. The repo is
definitely not empty. So, it's got the
shape of the chains, which looks good.
It's got the build scripts and a minimal
CLI that the pipeline can use for smoke
test. This looks very comprehensive, and
the fact that it did it in about 2 to 3
minutes makes me think that there were
some sub-agents that were being used to
get it done quickly. But, from here, I
can select parts of the text and add a
comment if I wanted to. Like, over here,
I can ask it, "What repo are you
referring to, and do you have access to
this?" And from here, Claude can revise
the plan. But, before I go ahead and do
that, let's take a look at my new token
percentage, which has gone from 4%
because of the debugging issue all the
way to 19. So, 15% of my tokens were
used to come up with this plan, which
isn't too bad, I guess. Let's go ahead
and revise this plan, and now it clones
the correct repo. I don't know why it
didn't do that the first time. So, about
a minute later, Claude has proposed a
new plan, and if we open that up over
here, we can see it does a much better
job of understanding what the project
contains and has created a flow diagram,
has a list of the exact files to modify,
and improves the GitHub action for
releases. Note, this whole process of
updating the plan moved it from 19 to
37% used, meaning this whole plan used
around 33% of my usage, which is a lot
for a plan. Now, from here, I'm going to
accept the plan, which begins to execute
the plan remotely. Now, I'm sure there's
a way for me to execute it in the CLI
instead of executing it in the cloud,
but that option wasn't really obvious.
And after about 5 minutes, it's finished
the implementation, but because there
are no GitHub credentials in this
environment, I have to manually create a
new branch and create a PR, which isn't
too bad. And I'm sure if I added the
GitHub credentials, if I had a private
repo, it'll be able to pull it and add
it to the sandbox for creating a plan.
But, because the scope of this demo was
just to review the plan, we're going to
end it here and not look too deep into
the implementation. Let's now look at
the same plan done with Superpowers.
Now, in order to save time, I've gone
ahead and executed this already inside
Claude Code, so we can just run through
it. And what I like about Superpowers
compared to Ultra Plan is the amount of
questions it asks. The Ultra Plan asked
three questions, but you can see here
with Superpowers, we get six questions,
so double the amount, and I believe from
this, it gives a more thorough plan. And
because this is running locally, it
doesn't have to clone my repo because it
has access to the code directly. From
here, it drafted out the plan and gave
me the CI flow and outlines how
everything will work. Now, Superpowers
actually has two planning phases, the
design plan that captures the problem
and the requirements, and the
implementation plan, which breaks down
the design into bite-size chunks. So,
here is the final implementation plan
from Superpowers, which has a goal,
architecture, and tech stack, which I
really like, the file structure for the
release pipeline, and the list of tasks
that need to be implemented, including
source code, which is similar to what
Ultra Plan provided, but Ultra Plan
didn't provide test cases, which is what
Superpowers does really well. It gets
the model to write tests first, then
write the implementation. So, here we
can see the test for the versioning,
then you run the test to see if it fails
before actually implementing the version
flag. This process happens all the way
down for every single task. And the
whole plan is about 833 lines, compared
to the plan from Ultra Plan, which is
about 195. One thing to note is that the
whole session for creating the
Superpowers design and implementation
plan took up about 75.1k tokens. So,
that's 57 for the messaging and 1.9 for
the skills, which is what Superpowers
mainly uses. So, if you believe the pro
5-hour limit is about 44,000 tokens,
then creating a Superpowers plan uses
much more. Although, I'm not convinced
it's actually 44,000 tokens, and this is
excluding prompt caching, which does a
lot to reuse existing tokens. Now, you
may get the impression from that demo
that I prefer using Superpowers than
using Ultra Plan to plan a feature, and
you're not wrong there. But, there is a
time and place for Ultra Plan. For
example, if I know I'm going to be away
from my machine for long period of time,
say I'm commuting or I'm traveling on a
plane or at airport or wherever, I may
want to start a feature on my laptop,
close it, turn it off, and continue it
on my phone, tablet, wherever, and
benefit from my code being in the cloud
and creating PRs as long as I've
installed the Claude app on my repo,
which I forgot to do for this demo.
Oops. But, if I do choose to work
locally, which I'm doing 90% of the
time, then I'll probably use Superpowers
because all my code is there locally, my
skills, my MCP tools, everything, and I
can get a more thorough plan. Now, this
isn't to say a more thorough plan means
a better execution, it's just the way I
prefer working because I can have a true
dialogue with the model when I'm
planning things out. Now, currently, the
Ultra Plan feature is only available
through the Claude Code CLI, so through
the terminal, and works with a pro or
max subscription since it has the Claude
Code for web link. But, maybe in the
future, they'll roll it out to different
subscription plans and different
platforms, so maybe you could kick off
an Ultra Plan session from Claude Code
web itself.